Machine Learning Open Source Software

Open source tools have recently reached a level of maturity which makes them
suitable for building large-scale real-world systems. At the same time, the
field of machine learning has developed a large body of powerful learning
algorithms for a wide range of applications.

To support the open source movement JMLR is proud to announce a new track. The
aim of this special section is to provide, in parallel to theoretical advances
in machine learning, a venue for collection and dissemination of open source
software. Furthermore, we believe that a resource of peer reviewed software
accompanied by short articles would be highly valuable to the machine learning
community in general, helping to build a common repository of machine learning
software.

We encourage submissions which are contributions related to implementations of
non-trivial machine learning algorithms, toolboxes or even languages for
scientific computing. As with the main JMLR papers, all published papers are
freely available online. The software must adhere to a recognised open source
license (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/). Submissions should clearly
indicate that they are intended for this special track in the cover letter of
the submission.

Since we specifically want to honor the effort of turning a method into a highly
usable piece of software, prior publication of the method is admissible, as long
as the software has not been published elsewhere. It is hoped that the open
source track will motivate the machine learning community towards open science,
where open access publishing, open data standards and open source software
foster research progress.

Format
We invite submissions of descriptions of high quality machine learning open
source software implementations. Submissions should at least include:
   1. A cover letter stating that the submission is intended for the machine
      learning open source software section, the open source license the
      software is released under, the web address of the project, and the
      software version to be reviewed.
   2. An up to four page description based on the JMLR format.
   3. A zip or compressed tar-archive file containing the source code and
      documentation. 

Review Criteria
The following guidelines would be used to review submissions. While ideally
submissions should satisfy all the criteria below, they are not necessary
requirements.

   1. The quality of the four page description.
   2. The novelty and breadth of the contribution.
   3. The clarity of design.
   4. The freedom of the code (lack of dependence on proprietary software).
   5. The breadth of platforms it can be used on (should include an open-source
      operating system).
   6. The quality of the user documentation (should enable new users to quickly
      apply the software to other problems, including a tutorial and several
      non-trivial examples of how the software can be used).
   7. The quality of the developer documentation (should enable easy
      modification and extension of the software, provide an API reference,
      provide unit testing routines).
   8. The quality of comparison to previous (if any) related implementations,
      w.r.t. run-time, memory requirements, features, to explain that
      significant progress has been made. 

After acceptance, the abstract including the link to the software project
website, the four page description and the reviewed version of the software will
be published on the JMLR-MLOSS website http://www.jmlr.org/mloss/. The authors
can then make sure that the software is appropriately maintained and that the
link to the project website is kept up-to-date.
