
The misspelling in the title will inhibit search-based
discovery of the paper.

Figure 1 is interesting but it seems it will only
work for trees with very few leaves, or will require
large rendering surfaces.  Can you suggest how a user
could get a scrollable view of a large tree with these
distributional glyphs?  Does the software manage the
display of such glyphs so that the resulting tree is always
pleasant to look at?

R users have had tree, rpart, randomForest for a long
time.  This paper is so brief that it does not indicate why
they need these new approaches.  How do they differ?
Speed?  Tunability?  Ease of prediction on new datasets?

Is the estimate of misclassification at the bottom of p2
a resubstitution estimate?  This is ad hoc?  See other papers
to get better estimates?  Please do a reasonable analysis
in a paper you are publishing for posterity.  "It is not
surprising that cforest improves on ctree..."  Then why
use ctree?  Because it has an intuitive visualization?
Why doesn't the random forest have an intuitive visualization?
Why don't we find a distribution of trees and render them
somehow?  Do you provide access to information on the
sequence of trees generated randomly?  Could a user make
sense of it?

Surrogate splits are mentioned but how are they to be used?
The figure seems to omit any concern with them, but why
then are they produced?

This paper semi-competently describes some software.  It mentions
that some unit tests are done, but what is being tested?
That the program does not crash?  That it finds the "real"
splits in synthetic data?  That it always finds the same
result on a given dataset?

I suggest that some comparative material be created and
added to this text to orient users towards better approaches
to computing with tree structured models.  "Here's something,
use it, party!" is not very effective or scientific, in 
my view.  The contributions of the authors to R and scientific
computing are very clear in other work.  This work should
be reported at the same high standard of completeness and 
persuasiveness.
